# Three

On TUESDAY morning a dome of grey sky rose 
over the parched city, but the stifling air was 
not reHeved by the silvery mist that seemed to 
hold a promise of rain, which did not fall. 

To Irene Redfield this soft foreboding 
fog was another reason for doing nothing 
about seeing Clare Kendry that afternoon. 

But she did see her. 

The telephone. For hours it had rung 
like something possessed. Since nine o'clock she 
had been hearing its insistent jangle. Awhile 
she was resolute, saying firmly each time: "Not 
in, Liza, take the message." And each time the 
servant returned with the information: "It's the 
same lady, ma'am; she says she'll call again." 

But at noon, her nerves frayed and her 
conscience smiting her at the reproachful look 
on Liza's ebony face as she withdrew for another denial, Irene weakened. 

"Oh, never mind. I'll answer this time, 
Liza." 
 
'It's her again." 

"Hello. . . . Yes.'' 

"It's Clare, 'Rene. . . . Where have 
you been? . . . Can you be here around four? 
. . . What? . . . But, 'Rene, you promised! 
Just for a little while. . . . You can if you 
want to. ... I am so disappointed. I had 
counted so on seeing you. . . . Please be nice 
and come. Only for a minute. I'm sure you can 
manage it If you try. ... I won't beg you to 
stay. . . . Yes. . . . I'm going to expect you 
. . . It's the Morgan. . . Oh, yes! The 
name's Bellew, Mrs. John Bellew. . . . About 
four, then. . . . I'll be so happy to see 
you! . . . Goodbye." 

"Damn!" 

Irene hung up the receiver with an emphatic bang, her thoughts immediately filled 
with self-reproach. She'd done it again. Allowed Clare Kendry to persuade her into promising to do something for which she had neither 
time nor any special desire. What was it about 
Clare's voice that was so appealing, so very 
seductive ? 
 Clare met her in the hall with a kiss. 
She said: "You're good to come, 'Rene. But, 
then, you always were nice to me." And under 
her potent smile a part of Irene's annoyance 
with herself fled. She was even a little glad that 
she had come. 

Clare led the way, stepping lightly, towards a room whose door was standing partly 
open, saying: "There's a surprise. It's a real 
party. See." 

Entering, Irene found herself in a sitting-room, large and high, at whose windows 
hung startling blue draperies which triumphantly dragged attention from the gloomy chocolate-coloured furniture. And Clare was wearing 
a thin floating dress of the same shade of blue, 
which suited her and the rather difficult room 
to perfection. 

For a minute Irene thought the room 
was empty, but turning her head, she discovered, sunk deep in the cushions of a huge 
sofa, a woman staring up at her with such intense concentration that her eyelids were drawn 
as though the strain of that upward glance had 
 paralysed them. At first Irene took her to be 
a stranger, but In the next instant she said in an 
unsympathetic, almost harsh voice: "And how 
are you, Gertrude?" 

The woman nodded and forced a smile 
to her pouting lips. "I'm all right," she replied. 
"And you're just the same, Irene. Not changed 
a bit." 

"Thank you." Irene responded, as she 
chose a seat. She was thinking: "Great goodness! Two of them." 

For Gertrude too had married a white 
man, though It couldn't be truthfully said that 
she was "passing." Her husband — what was 
his name? — had been In school with her 
and had been quite well aware, as had his 
family and most of his friends, that she was 
a Negro. It hadn't, Irene knew, seemed to 
matter to him then. Did it now, she wondered? Had Fred — Fred Martin, that was 
It — had he ever regretted his marriage 
because of Gertrude's race? Had Gertrude ? 

Turning  to  Gertrude,  Irene  asked: 
 "And Fred, how Is he? It's unmentionable years 
since I've seen him." 

"Oh, he's all right," Gertrude answered briefly. 

For a full minute no one spoke. Finally 
out of the oppressive little silence Clare's voice 
came pleasantly, conversationally: "We'll have 
tea right away. I know that you can't stay long, 
'Rene. And I'm so sorry you won't see Margery. We went up the lake over the week end 
to see some of Jack's people, just out of Milwaukee. Margery wanted to stay with the 
children. It seemed a shame not to let her, especially since It's so hot In town. But I'm expecting Jack any second." 

Irene said briefly: "That's nice." 

Gertrude remained silent. She was. It 
was plain, a little 111 at ease. And her presence 
there annoyed Irene, roused in her a defensive 
and resentful feeling for which she had at the 
moment no explanation. But It did seem to 
her odd that the woman that Clare was now 
should have Invited the woman that Gertrude  was.  Still,  of  course,  Clare  couldn't 
 have known. Twelve years since they had met. 

Later, when she examined her feeHng 
of annoyance, Irene admitted, a shade reluctantly, that it arose from a feeling of being outnumbered, a sense of aloneness, in her adherence to her own class and kind; not merely in 
the great thing of marriage, but in the whole 
pattern of her life as well. 

Clare spoke again, this time at length. 
Her talk was of the change that Chicago presented to her after her long absence in European cities. Yes, she said in reply to some question from Gertrude, she'd been back to 
America a time or two, but only as far as New 
York and Philadelphia, and once she had spent 
a few days in Washington. John Bellew, who, 
it appeared, was some sort of international 
banking agent, hadn't particularly wanted her 
to come with him on this trip, but as soon as 
she had learned that it would probably take him 
as far as Chicago, she made up her mind to 
come anyway. 

"I simply had to. And after I once got 
here, I was determined to see someone I knew 
and find out what had happened to everybody. 
I didn't quite see how I was going to manage 
It, but I meant to. Somehow. I'd just about 
decided to take a chance and go out to your 
house, 'Rene, or call up and arrange a meeting, when I ran Into you. What luck!" 

Irene agreed that It was luck. "It's the 
first time I've been home for five years, and 
now I'm about to leave. A week later and I'd 
have been gone. And how In the world did you 
find Gertrude?" 

"In the book. I remembered about 
Fred. His father still has the meat market." 

"Oh, yes," said Irene, who had only 
remembered It as Clare had spoken, "on Cottage Grove near — " 

Gertrude broke In. "No. It's moved. 
We're on Maryland Avenue — used to be Jackson— now. Near Sixty-third Street. And the 
market's Fred's. His name's the same as his 
father's." 

Gertrude, Irene thought, looked as If 
her husband might be a butcher. There was left 
 of her youthful prettiness, which had been so 
much admired In their high-school days, no 
trace. She had grown broad, fat almost, and 
though there were no lines on her large white 
face. Its very smoothness was somehow prematurely ageing. Her black hair was dipt, and 
by some unfortunate means all the live curliness 
had gone from It. Her over-trimmed Georgette crepe dress was too short and showed an 
appalling amount of leg, stout legs In sleazy 
stockings of a vivid rose-beige shade. Her 
plump hands were newly and not too competently manicured — for the occasion, probably. 
And she wasn't smoking. 

Clare said — and Irene fancied that her 
husky voice held a slight edge — "Before you 
came, Irene, Gertrude was telling me about her 
two boys. Twins. Think of It ! Isn't It too marvellous for words?" 

Irene felt a warmness creeping Into her 
cheeks. Uncanny, the way Clare could divine 
what one was thinking. She was a little put out, 
but her manner was entirely easy as she said: 
"That Is nice. I've two boys myself, Gertrude. 
 Not twins, though. It seems that Clare's rather 
behind, doesn't It?" 

Gertrude, however, wasn't sure that 
Clare hadn't the best of It. "She's got a girl. I 
wanted a girl. So did Fred." 

"Isn't that a bit unusual?" Irene asked. 
"Most men want sons. Egotism, I suppose." 

"Well, Fred didn't." 

The tea-things had been placed on a low 
table at Clare's side. She gave them her attention now, pouring the rich amber fluid from the 
tall glass pitcher Into stately slim glasses, which 
she handed to her guests, and then offered them 
lemon or cream and tiny sandwiches or cakes. 

After taking up her own glass she informed them: "No, I have no boys and I don't 
think I'll ever have any. I'm afraid. I nearly 
died of terror the whole nine months before 
Margery was born for fear that she might be 
dark. Thank goodness, she turned out all right. 
But I'll never risk It again. Never ! The strain 
Is simply too — too hellish." 

Gertrude Martin nodded in complete 
comprehension. 
 This time it was Irene who said nothing. 

"You don't have to tell me!" Gertrude 
said fervently. ''I know what it is all right. 
Maybe you don't think I wasn't scared to death 
too. Fred said I was silly, and so did his mother. 
But, of course, they thought it was just a notion I'd gotten into my head and they blamed 
it on my condition. They don't know like we 
do, how it might go way back, and turn out 
dark no matter what colour the father and 
mother are." 

Perspiration stood out on her forehead. 
Her narrow eyes rolled first in Clare's, then in 
Irene's direction. As she talked she waved her 
heavy hands about. 

"No," she went on, "no more for me 
either. Not even a girl. It's awful the way it 
skips generations and then pops out. Why, he 
actually said he didn't care what colour it 
turned out, if I would only stop worrying about 
it. But, of course, nobody wants a dark child." 
Her voice was earnest and she took for granted 
 that her audience was In entire agreement with 
her. 

Irene, whose head had gone up with a 
quick little jerk, now said in a voice of whose 
even tones she was proud: "One of my boys 
IS dark." 

Gertrude jumped as if she had been 
shot at. Her eyes goggled. Her mouth flew 
open. She tried to speak, but could not immediately get the words out. Finally she managed 
to stammer: "Oh! And your husband, is he — is 
he — er — dark, too?" 

Irene, who was struggling with a flood 
of feelings, resentment, anger, and contempt, 
was, however, still able to answer as coolly as 
if she had not that sense of not belonging to 
and of despising the company in which she 
found herself drinking iced tea from tall amber glasses on that hot August afternoon. Her 
husband, she informed them quietly, couldn't 
exactly "pass." 

At that reply Clare turned on Irene her 
seductive caressing smile and remarked a little 
 scoffingly: "I do think that coloured people — 
we — are too silly about some things. After all, 
the thing's not Important to Irene or hundreds 
of others. Not awfully, even to you, Gertrude. 
It's only deserters like me who have to be 
afraid of freaks of the nature. As my inestimable dad used to say, 'Everything must be 
paid for.' Now, please one of you tell me what 
ever happened to Claude Jones. You know, the 
tall, lanky specimen who used to wear that comical little moustache that the girls used to laugh 
at so. Like a thin streak of soot. The moustache, I mean." 

At that Gertrude shrieked with laughter. 
"Claude Jones!" and launched into the story of 
how he was no longer a Negro or a Christian 
but had become a Jew. 

"A Jew!" Clare exclaimed. 

"Yes, a Jew. A black Jew, he calls himself. He won't eat ham and goes to the synagogue on Saturday. He's got a beard now as 
well as a moustache. You'd die laughing if you 
saw him. He's really too funny for words. Fred 
says he's crazy and I guess he Is. Oh, he's a 
 scream all right, a regular scream!" And she 
shrieked again. 

Clare's laugh tinkled out. "It certainly 
sounds funny enough. Still, it's his own business. 
If he gets along better by turning — " 

At that, Irene, who was still hugging 
her unhappy don't-care feeling of rightness, 
broke In, saying bitingly: "It evidently doesn't 
occur to either you or Gertrude that he might 
possibly be sincere In changing his religion. 
Surely everyone doesn't do everything for 
gain." 

Clare Kendry had no need to search for 
the full meaning of that utterance. She reddened slightly and retorted seriously: "Yes, I 
admit that might be possible — his being sincere, 
I mean. It just didn't happen to occur to me, 
that's all. I'm surprised," and the seriousness 
changed to mockery, "that you should have expected it to. Or did you really?" 

"You don't, I'm sure, imagine that that 
Is a question that I can answer," Irene told her. 
"Not here and now." 

Gertrude's face expressed complete be wilderment. However, seeing that little smiles 
had come out on the faces of the two other 
women and not recognizing them for the smiles 
of mutual reservations which they were, she 
smiled too. 

Clare began to talk, steering carefully 
away from anything that might lead towards 
race or other thorny subjects. It was the most 
brilliant exhibition of conversational weightlifting that Irene had ever seen. Her words 
swept over them in charming well-modulated 
streams. Her laughs tinkled and pealed. Her 
little stories sparkled. 

Irene contributed a bare "Yes" or 
"No" here and there. Gertrude, a "You don't 
say!" less frequently. 

For a while the Illusion of general conversation was nearly perfect. Irene felt her resentment changing gradually to a silent, somewhat grudging admiration. 

Clare talked on, her voice, her gestures, 
colouring all she said of wartime In France, of 
after-the-wartlme In Germany, of the excitement at the time of the general strike in Eng land, of dressmaker's openings in Paris, of the 
new gaiety of Budapest. 

But It couldn't last, this verbal feat. 
Gertrude shifted In her seat and fell to fidgeting with her fingers. Irene, bored at last by all 
this repetition of the selfsame things that she 
had read all too often in papers, magazines, and 
books, set down her glass and collected her bag 
and handkerchief. She was smoothing out the 
tan fingers of her gloves preparatory to putting them on when she heard the sound of the 
outer door being opened and saw Clare spring 
up with an expression of relief saying: "How 
lovely! Here's Jack at exactly the right minute. 
You can't go now, 'Rene dear." 

John Bellew came Into the room. The 
first thing that Irene noticed about him was 
that he was not the man that she had seen 
with Clare Kendry on the Drayton roof. This 
man, Clare's husband, was a talllsh person, 
broadly made. His age she guessed to be somewhere between thirty-five and forty. His hair 
was dark brown and waving, and he had a soft 
mouth,  somewhat  womanish,  set  In  an  unhealthy-looking dough-coloured face. His steelgrey opaque eyes were very much alive, moving 
ceaselessly between thick bluish lids. But there 
was, Irene decided, nothing unusual about him, 
unless it was an Impression of latent physical 
power. 

"Hello, Nig," was his greeting to 
Clare. 

Gertrude who had started slightly, settled back and looked covertly towards Irene, 
who had caught her lip between her teeth and 
sat gazing at husband and wife. It was hard to 
believe that even Clare Kendry would permit 
this ridiculing of her race by an outsider, 
though he chanced to be her husband. So he 
knew, then, that Clare was a Negro? From her 
talk the other day Irene had understood that 
he didn't. But how rude, how positively Insulting, for him to address her in that way in the 
presence of guests ! 

In Clare's eyes, as she presented her 
husband, was a queer gleam, a jeer. It might be. 
Irene couldn't define It. 

The mechanical professions that attend  an introduction over, she inquired: "Did you 
hear what Jack called me?" 

"Yes," Gertrude answered, laughing 
with a dutiful eagerness. 

Irene didn't speak. Her gaze remained 
level on Clare's smiling face. 

The black eyes fluttered down. "Tell 
them, dear, why you call me that." 

The man chuckled, crinkling up his eyes, 
not, Irene was compelled to acknowledge, unpleasantly. He explained: "Well, you see, it's 
like this. When we were first married, she was 
as white as — as — well as white as a lily. But 
I declare she's gettin' darker and darker. I tell 
her if she don't look out, she'll wake up one 
of these days and find she's turned into a 
nigger." 

He roared with laughter. Clare's ringing bell-like laugh joined his. Gertrude after 
another uneasy shift in her seat added her 
shrill one. Irene, who had been sitting with lips 
tightly compressed, cried out: "That's good!" 
and gave way to gales of laughter. She laughed 
and laughed and laughed. Tears ran down her 
 cheeks. Her sides ached. Her throat hurt. She 
laughed on and on and on, long after the others had subsided. Until, catching sight of 
Clare's face, the need for a more quiet enjoyment of this priceless joke, and for caution, 
struck her. At once she stopped. 

Clare handed her husband his tea and 
laid her hand on his arm with an affectionate 
little gesture. Speaking with confidence as well 
as with amusement, she said: "My goodness, 
Jack! What difference would it make if, after 
all these years, you were to find out that I was 
one or two per cent coloured?" 

Bellew put out his hand in a repudiating fling, definite and final. "Oh, no. Nig," he 
declared, "nothing like that with me. I know 
you're no nigger, so it's all right. You can get 
as black as you please as far as I'm concerned, 
since I know you're no nigger. I draw the line 
at that. No niggers in my family. Never have 
been and never will be." 

Irene's lips trembled almost uncontrollably, but she made a desperate effort to fight 
back her disastrous desire to laugh again, and 
 succeeded. Carefully selecting a cigarette from 
the lacquered box on the tea-table before her, 
she turned an oblique look on Clare and encountered her peculiar eyes fixed on her with 
an expression so dark and deep and unfathomable that she had for a short moment the sensation of gazing into the eyes of some creature 
utterly strange and apart. A faint sense of danger brushed her, like the breath of a cold fog. 
Absurd, her reason told her, as she accepted 
Bellew's proffered light for her cigarette. Another glance at Clare showed her smiling. So, 
as one always ready to oblige, was Gertrude. 

An on-looker, Irene reflected, would 
have thought It a most congenial tea-party, all 
smiles and jokes and hilarious laughter. She 
said humorously : ''So you dislike Negroes, Mr. 
Bellew?" But her amusement was at her 
thought, rather than her words. 

John Bellew gave a short denying laugh. 
"You got me wrong there, Mrs. Redfield. 
Nothing like that at all. I don't dislike them, I 
hate them. And so does Nig, for all she's trying to turn Into one. She wouldn't have a nigger 
 maid around her for love nor money. Not that 
I'd want her to. They give me the creeps. The 
black scrlmy devils.'' 

This wasn't funny. Had Bellew, Irene 
inquired, ever known any Negroes? The defensive tone of her voice brought another start 
from the uncomfortable Gertrude, and, for all 
her appearance of serenity, a quick apprehensive look from Clare. 

Bellew answered: "Thank the Lord, 
no! And never expect to! But I know people 
who've known them, better than they know 
their black selves. And I read in the papers 
about them. Always robbing and killing people. 
And," he added darkly, "worse." 

From Gertrude's direction came a queer 
little suppressed sound, a snort or a giggle. 
Irene couldn't tell which. There was a brief 
silence, during which she feared that her selfcontrol was about to prove too frail a bridge 
to support her mounting anger and indignation. 
She had a leaping desire to shout at the man 
beside her: "And you're sitting here surrounded 
by three black devils, drinking tea." 
 The impulse passed, obliterated by her 
consciousness of the danger in which such rashness would involve Clare, who remarked with 
a gentle reprovingness : "Jack dear, I'm sure 
'Rene doesn't care to hear all about your pet 
aversions. Nor Gertrude either. Maybe they 
read the papers too, you know." She smiled on 
him, and her smile seemed to transform him, 
to soften and mellow him, as the rays of the 
sun does a fruit. 

"All right. Nig, old girl. I'm sorry," 
he apologized. Reaching over, he playfully 
touched his wife's pale hands, then turned back 
to Irene. "Didn't mean to bore you, Mrs. Redfield. Hope you'll excuse me," he said sheepishly. "Clare tells me you're living in New 
York. Great city. New York. The city of the 
future." 

In Irene, rage had not retreated, but 
was held by some dam of caution and allegiance 
to Clare. So, in the best casual voice she could 
muster, she agreed with Bellew. Though, she 
reminded him, it was exactly what Chicagoans 
were apt to say of their city. And all the while 
 she was speaking, she was thinking how amazing it was that her voice did not tremble, that 
outwardly she was calm. Only her hands shook 
slightly. She drew them inward from their rest 
in her lap and pressed the tips of her fingers 
together to still them. 

"Husband's a doctor, I understand. 
Manhattan, or one of the other boroughs?" 

Manhattan, Irene informed him, and 
explained the need for Brian to be within easy 
reach of certain hospitals and clinics. 

"Interesting life, a doctor's." 

"Ye-es. Hard, though. And, in a way, 
monotonous. Nerve-racking too." 

"Hard on the wife's nerves at least, 
eh? So many lady patients." He laughed, enjoying, with a boyish heartiness, the hoary 
joke. 

Irene managed a momentary smile, but 
her voice was sober as she said: "Brian doesn't 
care for ladies, especially sick ones. I sometimes wish he did. It's South America that attracts him." 

"Coming place, South America, if they  ever get the niggers out of it. It's run over — " 

"Really, Jack!" Clare's voice was on 
the edge of temper. 

"Honestly, Nig, I forgot." To the 
others he said: "You see how hen-pecked I 
am." And to Gertrude: "You're still in Chicago, Mrs. — er — Mrs. Martin?" 

He was, it was plain, doing his best to 
be agreeable to these old friends of Clare's. 
Irene had to concede that under other conditions she might have liked him. A fairly goodlooking man of amiable disposition, evidently, 
and in easy circumstances. Plain and with no 
nonsense about him. 

Gertrude replied that Chicago was 
good enough for her. She'd never been out of it 
and didn't think she ever should. Her husband's business was there. 

"Of course, of course. Can't jump up 
and leave a business." 

There followed a smooth surface of 
talk about Chicago, New York, their differences and their recent spectacular changes. 

It  was,  Irene,  thought,  unbelievable 
 and astonishing that four people could sit so 
unruffled, so ostensibly friendly, while they 
were In reality seething with anger, mortification, shame. But no, on second thought she 
was forced to amend her opinion. John Bellew, 
most certainly, was as undisturbed within as 
without. So, perhaps, was Gertrude Martin. At 
least she hadn't the mortification and shame 
that Clare Kendry must be feeling, or. In such 
full measure, the rage and rebellion that she, 
Irene, was repressing. 

"More tea, 'Rene," Clare offered. 

"Thanks, no. And I must be going. I'm 
leaving tomorrow, you know, and I've still got 
packing to do." 

She stood up. So did Gertrude, and 
Clare, and John Bellew. 

"How do you like the Drayton, Mrs. 
Redfield?" the latter asked. 

"The Drayton? Oh, very much. Very 
much Indeed," Irene answered, her scornful 
eyes on Clare's unrevealing face. 

"Nice place, all right. Stayed there a 
time or two myself," the man informed her. 
 "Yes, Jt is nice," Irene agreed. "Almost 
as good as our best New York places." She had 
withdrawn her look from Clare and was searching in her bag for some non-existent something. 
Her understanding was rapidly increasing, as 
was her pity and her contempt. Clare was so 
daring, so lovely, and so "having." 

They gave their hands to Clare with 
appropriate murmurs. "So good to have seen 
you." ...  "I  do  hope  I'll  see  you  again 


soon." 


"Good-bye," Clare returned. "It was 
good of you to come, 'Rene dear. And you too, 
Gertrude." 

"Good-bye, Mr. Bellew." . . . "So 
glad to have met you." It was Gertrude who 
had said that. Irene couldn't, she absolutely 
couldn't bring herself to utter the polite fiction or anything approaching it. 

He accompanied them out into the hall, 
summoned the elevator. 

"Good-bye," they said again, stepping 
in. 

Plunging downward they were silent. 
 They made their way through the lobby 
without speaking. 

But as soon as they had reached the 
street Gertrude, In the manner of one unable 
to keep bottled up for another minute that 
which for the last hour she had had to retain, 
burst out: "My God! What an awful chance! 
She must be plumb crazy." 

"Yes, It certainly seems risky," Irene admitted. 

"Risky! I should say It was. Risky! My 
God ! What a word ! And the mess she's liable 
to get herself Into!" 

"Still, I Imagine she's pretty safe. They 
don't live here, you know. And there's a child. 
That's a certain security." 

"It's an awful chance, just the same," 
Gertrude Insisted. "I'd never In the world have 
married Fred without him knowing. You can't 
tell what will turn up." 

"Yes, I do agree that It's safer to tell. 
But then Bellew wouldn't have married her. 
And, after all, that's what she wanted." 

Gertrude shook her head. "I wouldn't 
 be in her shoes for all the money she's getting 
out of it, when he finds out. Not with him feeling the way he does. Gee! Wasn't it awful? 
For a minute I was so mad I could have 
slapped him." 

It had been, Irene acknowledged, a distinctly trying experience, as well as a very unpleasant one. "I was more than a little angry 
myself." 

"And imagine her not telling us about 
him feeling that way ! Anything might have 
happened. We might have said something." 

That, Irene pointed out, was exactly 
like Clare Kendry. Taking a chance, and not at 
all considering anyone else's feelings. 

Gertrude said: "Maybe she thought 
we'd think it a good joke. And I guess you did. 
The way you laughed. My land! I was scared 
to death he might catch on." 

"Well, it was rather a joke," Irene told 
her, "on him and us and maybe on her." 

"All the same, it's an awful chance. I'd 
hate to be her." 

"She seems satisfied enough. She's got 
 what she wanted, and the other day she told 
me It was worth It.'' 

But about that Gertrude was sceptical. 
"She'll find out different," was her verdict. 
"She'll find out different all right." 

Rain had begun to fall, a few scattered 
large drops. 

The end-of-the-day crowds were scurrying In the directions of street-cars and elevated 
roads. 

Irene said: "You're going south? I'm 
sorry. I've got an errand. If you don't mind, 
I'll just say good-bye here. It has been nice 
seeing you, Gertrude. Say hello to Fred for 
me, and to your mother If she remembers me. 
Good-bye." 

She had wanted to be free of the other 
woman, to be alone; for she was still sore and 
angry. 

What right, she kept demanding of herself, had Clare Kendry to expose her, or even 
Gertrude Martin, to such humiliation, such 
downright Insult? 

And all the while, on the rushing ride 
 out to her father's house, Irene Redfield was 
trying to understand the look on Clare's face 
as she had said good-bye. Partly mocking, it 
had seemed, and partly menacing. And something else for which she could find no name. 
For an instant a recrudescence of that sensation of fear which she had had while looking 
into Clare's eyes that afternoon touched her. 
A slight shiver ran over her. 

"It's nothing," she told herself. "Just 
somebody walking over my grave, as the children say." She tried a tiny laugh and was annoyed to find that it was close to tears. 

What a state she had allowed that horrible Bellew to get her into ! 

And late that night, even, long after the 
last guest had gone and the old house was 
quiet, she stood at her window frowning out 
Into the dark rain and puzzling again over that 
look on Clare's incredibly beautiful face. She 
couldn't, however, come to any conclusion 
about Its meaning, try as she might. It was unfathomable, utterly beyond any experience or 
comprehension of hers. 
 She turned away from the window, at 
last, with a still deeper frown. Why, after all, 
worry about Clare Kendry? She was well able 
to take care of herself, had always been able. 
And there were, for Irene, other things, more 
personal and more Important to worry about. 

Besides, her reason told her, she had 
only herself to blame for her disagreeable afternoon and Its attendant fears and questions. 
She ought never to have gone. 
