# One

X HE YEAR was getting on towards its end. 
October, November had gone. December had 
come and brought with it a httle snow and then 
a freeze and after that a thaw and some soft 
pleasant days that had in them a feeling of 
spring. 

It wasn't, this mild weather, a bit 
Christmasy, Irene Redfield was thinking, as 
she turned out of Seventh Avenue into her own 
street. She didn't like it to be warm and 
springy when it should have been cold and 
crisp, or grey and cloudy as if snow was about 
to fall. The weather, like people, ought to enter into the spirit of the season. Here the holidays were almost upon them, and the streets 
through which she had come were streaked 
with rills of muddy water and the sun shone so 
warmly that children had taken off their hats 
and scarfs. It was all as soft, as like April, as 
possible. The kind of weather for Easter. Certainly not for Christmas. 
 Though, she admitted, reluctantly, she 
herself didn't feel the proper Christmas spirit 
this year, either. But that couldn't be helped, it 
seemed, any more than the weather. She was 
weary and depressed. And for all her trying, 
she couldn't be free of that dull, indefinite 
misery which with increasing tenaciousness had 
laid hold of her. The morning's aimless wandering through the teeming Harlem streets, 
long after she had ordered the flowers which 
had been her excuse for setting out, was but 
another effort to tear herself loose from it. 

She went up the cream stone steps, into 
the house, and down to the kitchen. There were 
to be people in to tea. But that, she found, after 
a few words with Sadie and Zulena, need give 
her no concern. She was thankful. She didn't 
want to be bothered. She went upstairs and 
took off her things and got into bed. 

She thought: "Bother those people 
coming to tea!" 

She thought: "If I could only be sure 
that at bottom it's just Brazil." 
 She thought : "Whatever It is, if I only 
knew what it was, I could manage it." 

Brian again. Unhappy, restless, withdrawn. And she, who had prided herself on 
knowing his moods, their causes and their remedies, had found it first unthinkable, and then 
intolerable, that this, so like and yet so unlike 
those other spasmodic restlessnesses of his, 
should be to her incomprehensible and elusive. 

He was restless and he was not restless. 
He was discontented, yet there were times 
when she felt he was possessed of some intense 
secret satisfaction, like a cat who had stolen the 
cream. He was irritable with the boys, especially Junior, for Ted, who seemed to have an 
uncanny knowledge of his father's periods of 
off moods, kept out of his way when possible. 
They got on his nerves, drove him to violent 
outbursts of temper, very different from his 
usual gently sarcastic remarks that constituted 
his idea of discipline for them. On the other 
hand, with her he was more than customarily 
considerate and abstemious. And It had been 
 weeks since she had felt the keen edge of his 
irony. 

He was Hke a man marking time, waiting. But what was he waiting for? It was extraordinary that, after all these years of accurate perception, she now lacked the talent to 
discover what that appearance of waiting 
meant. It was the knowledge that, for all her 
watching, all her patient study, the reason for 
his humour still eluded her which filled her 
with foreboding dread. That guarded reserve 
of his seemed to her unjust. Inconsiderate, and 
alarming. It was as If he had stepped out beyond her reach into some section, strange and 
walled, where she could not get at him. 

She closed her eyes, thinking what a 
blessing it would be if she could get a little 
sleep before the boys came in from school. She 
couldn't, of course, though she was so tired, 
having had, of late, so many sleepless nights. 
Nights filled with questionings and premonitions. 

But she did sleep — several hours. 

She wakened to find Brian standing at 
 her bedside looking down at her, an unfathomable expression in his eyes. 

She said: "I must have dropped off to 
sleep," and watched a slender ghost of his old 
amused smile pass over his face. 

"It's getting on to four," he told her, 
meaning, she knew, that she was going to be 
late again. 

She fought back the quick answer that 
rose to her lips and said instead: "I'm getting 
right up. It was good of you to think to call 
me." She sat up. 

He bowed. "Always the attentive husband, you see." 

"Yes indeed. Thank goodness, everything's ready." 

"Except you.  Oh,  and  Clare's  down

stairs." 


"Clare ! What a nuisance ! I didn't ask 
her. Purposely." 

"I see. Might a mere man ask why? Or 
is the reason so subtly feminine that it wouldn't 
be understood by him?" 

A little of his smile had come back. 
 Irene, who was beginning to shake off some of 
her depression under his famlHar banter, said, 
almost gaily: "Not at all. It just happens that 
this party happens to be for Hugh, and that 
Hugh happens not to care a great deal for 
Clare; therefore I, who happen to be giving 
the party, didn't happen to ask her. Nothing 
could be simpler. Could it?" 

"Nothing. It's so simple that I can 
easily see beyond your simple explanation and 
surmise that Clare, probably, just never happened to pay Hugh the admiring attention that 
he happens to consider no more than his just 
due. Simplest thing in the world." 

Irene exclaimed in amazement: "Why, 
I thought you liked Hugh ! You don't, you 
can't, believe anything so idiotic!" 

"Well, Hugh does think he's God, you 
know." 

"That," Irene declared, getting out of 
bed, "is absolutely not true. He thinks ever so 
much better of himself than that, as you, who 
know and have read him, ought to be able to 
guess. If you remember what a low opinion he 
 has of God, you won't make such a silly mistake." 

She went into the closet for her things 
and, coming back, hung her frock over the back 
of a chair and placed her shoes on the floor 
beside it. Then she sat down before her 
dressing-table. 

Brian didn't speak. He continued to 
stand beside the bed, seeming to look at nothing in particular. Certainly not at her. True, 
his gaze was on her, but in it there was some 
quality that made her feel that at that moment 
she was no more to him than a pane of glass 
through which he stared. At what? She didn't 
know, couldn't guess. And this made her uncomfortable. Piqued her. 

She said: "It just happens that Hugh 
prefers intelligent women." 

Plainly he was startled. "D'you mean 
that you think Clare is stupid?" he asked, regarding her with lifted eyebrows, which emphasized the disbelief of his voice. 

She wiped the cold cream from her face, 
before she said: "No, I don't. She isn't stupid. 
 She's intelligent enough In a purely feminine 
way. Eighteenth-century France would have 
been a marvellous setting for her, or the old 
South if she hadn't made the mistake of being 
born a Negro." 

"I see. Intelligent enough to wear a 
tight bodice and keep bowing swains whispering compliments and retrieving dropped fans. 
Rather a pretty picture. I take it, though, as 
slightly feline in Its Implication." 

"Well, then, all I can say is that you 
take it wrongly. Nobody admires Clare more 
than I do, for the kind of Intelligence she has, 
as well as for her decorative qualities. But 
she's not — She isn't — She hasn't — Oh, I can't 
explain it. Take Bianca, for example, or, to 
keep to the race, Felise Freeland. Looks and 
brains. Real brains that can hold their own with 
anybody. Clare has got brains of a sort, the 
kind that are useful too. Acquisitive, you know. 
But she'd bore a man like Hugh to suicide. Still, 
I never thought that even Clare would come to 
a private party to which she hadn't been asked. 
But, it's like her." 

For a minute there was silence. She 
completed the bright red arch of her full lips. 
Brian moved towards the door. His hand was 
on the knob. He said: "I'm sorry, Irene. It's 
my fault entirely. She seemed so hurt at being 
left out that I told her I was sure you'd forgotten and to just come along." 

Irene cried out: "But, Brian, I — " and 
stopped, amazed at the fierce anger that had 
blazed up In her. 

Brian's head came round with a jerk. 
His brows lifted In an odd surprise. 

Her voice, she realized, had gone queer. 
But she had an Instinctive feeling that It hadn't 
been the whole cause of his attitude. And that 
little straightening motion of the shoulders. 
Hadn't It been like that of a man drawing himself up to receive a blow? Her fright was like 
a scarlet spear of terror leaping at her heart. 

Clare Kendry! So that was It! Impossible. It couldn't be. 

In the mirror before her she saw that 
he was still regarding her with that air of slight 
amazement. She dropped her eyes to the jars 
 and bottles on the table and began to fumble 
among them with hands whose fingers shook 
slightly. 

''Of course," she said carefully, 'Tm 
glad you did. And in spite of my recent remarks, Clare does add to any party. She's so 
easy on the eyes." 

When she looked again, the surprise 
had gone from his face and the expectancy 
from, his bearing. 

"Yes," he agreed. "Well, I guess Til run 
along. One of us ought to be down, I s'pose." 

"You're right. One of us ought to." 
She was surprised that it was in her normal 
tones she spoke, caught as she was by the heart 
since that dull indefinite fear had grown suddenly into sharp panic. "I'll be down before 
you know it," she promised. 

"All right." But he still lingered. 
"You're quite certain. You don't mind my asking her? Not awfully, I mean? I see now that 
I ought to have spoken to you. Trust women to 
have their reasons for everything." 

She made a little pretence at looking at  him, managed a tiny smile, and turned away. 
Clare! How sickening! 

"Yes, don't they?" she said, striving to 
keep her voice casual. Within her she felt a 
hardness from feeling, not absent, but repressed. And that hardness was rising, swelling. Why didn't he go? Why didn't he? 

He had opened the door at last. "You 
won't be long?" he asked, admonished. 

She shook her head, unable to speak, 
for there was a choking in her throat, and the 
confusion in her mind was like the beating of 
wings. Behind her she heard the gentle Impact 
of the door as it closed behind him, and knew 
that he had gone. Down to Clare. 

For a long minute she sat in strained 
stiffness. The face in the mirror vanished from 
her sight, blotted out by this thing which had 
so suddenly flashed across her groping mind. 
Impossible for her to put it immediately into 
words or give it outline, for, prompted by some 
impulse of self-protection, she recoiled from 
exact expression. 

She closed her unseeing eyes and  clenched her fists. She tried not to cry. But her 
Hps tightened and no effort could check the hot 
tears of rage and shame that sprang into her 
eyes and flowed down her cheeks; so she laid 
her face in her arms and wept silently. 

When she was sure that she had done 
crying, she wiped away the warm remaining 
tears and got up. After bathing her swollen 
face in cold, refreshing water and carefully 
applying a stinging splash of toilet water, she 
went back to the mirror and regarded herself 
gravely. Satisfied that there lingered no betraying evidence of weeping, she dusted a little 
powder on her dark-white face and again examined it carefully, and with a kind of ridiculing contempt. 

"I do think," she confided to it, "that 
youVe been something — oh, very much — of a 
damned fool." 

Downstairs the ritual of tea gave her 
some busy moments, and that, she decided, was 
a blessing. She wanted no empty spaces of time 
in which her mind would immediately return to 
that horror which she had not yet gathered suf ficient courage to face. Pouring tea properly 
and nicely was an occupation that required a 
kind of well-balanced attention. 

In the room beyond, a clock chimed. A 
single sound. Fifteen minutes past five o'clock. 
That was all ! And yet in the short space of 
half an hour all of life had changed, lost its 
colour, Its vividness, its whole meaning. No, 
she reflected, it wasn't that that had happened. 
Life about her, apparently, went on exactly as 
before. 

"Oh, Mrs. Runyon. ... So nice to see 
you. . . . Two? . . . Really? . . . How exciting! . . . Yes, I think Tuesday's all 
right. . . ." 

Yes, life went on precisely as before. 
It was only she that had changed. Knowing, 
stumbling on this thing, had changed her. It 
was as If In a house long dim, a match had been 
struck, showing ghastly shapes where had been 
only blurred shadows. 

Chatter, chatter, chatter. Someone 
asked her a question. She glanced up with what 
she felt was a rigid smile. 
 "Yes . . . Brian picked it up last winter in Haiti. Terribly weird, isn't it? ... It 
is rather marvellous in its own hideous way. 
. . . Practically nothing, I believe. A few 
cents. . . ." 

Hideous. A great weariness came over 
her. Even the small exertion of pouring golden 
tea into thin old cups seemed almost too much 
for her. She went on pouring. Made repetitions 
of her smile. Answered questions. Manufactured conversation. She thought: "I feel like 
the oldest person in the world with the longest 
stretch of life before me." 

"Josephine Baker? . . . No. I've never 
seen her. . . . Well, she might have been in 
Shuffle Along when I saw it, but if she was, I 
don't remember her. . . . Oh, but you're 
wrong I ... I do think Ethel Waters is awfully good. ..." 

There were the familiar little tinkling 
sounds of spoons striking against frail cups, the 
soft running sounds of inconsequential talk, 
punctuated now and then with laughter. In irregular small groups,  disintegrating,  coalesc ing, striking just the right note of disharmony, 
disorder in the big room, which Irene had furnished with a sparingness that was almost 
chaste, moved the guests with that slight familiarity that makes a party a success. On the 
floor and the walls the sinking sun threw long, 
fantastic shadows. 

So like many other tea-parties she had 
had. So unlike any of those others. But she 
mustn't think yet. Time enough for that after. 
All the time in the world. She had a second's 
flashing knowledge of what those words might 
portend. Time with Brian. Time without him. 
It was gone, leaving in its place an almost uncontrollable impulse to laugh, to scream, to hurl 
things about. She wanted, suddenly, to shock 
people, to hurt them, to make them notice her, 
to be aware of her suffering. 

''Hello, Dave. . . . Felise. . . . Really 
your clothes are the despair of half the women 
in Harlem. . . . How do you do it? . . . 
Lovely, is it Worth or Lanvin? . . . Oh, a 
mere Babani. ..." 

"Merely that," Felise Freeland ac-  knowledged. "Come out of it, Irene, whatever 
it is. You look like the second grave-digger/' 

"Thanks, for the hint, Felise. I'm not 
feeling quite up to par. The weather, I guess." 

"Buy yourself an expensive new frock, 
child. It always helps. Any time this child gets 
the blues, it means money out of Dave's pocket. 
How're those boys of yours?" 

The boys! For once she'd forgotten 
them. 

They were, she told Felise, very well. 
Felise mumbled something about that being 
awfully nice, and said she'd have to fly, because 
for a wonder she saw Mrs. Bellew sitting by 
herself, "and I've been trying to get her alone 
all afternoon. I want her for a party. Isn't she 
stunning today?" 

Clare was. Irene couldn't remember 
ever having seen her look better. She was wearing a superlatively simple cinnamon-brown 
frock which brought out all her vivid beauty, 
and a little golden bowl of a hat. Around 
her neck hung a string of amber beads that 
would  easily  have  made  six  or  eight  like 
 one  Irene  owned.  Yes,  she  was  stunning. 

The ripple of talk flowed on. The fire 
roared. The shadows stretched longer. 

Across the room was Hugh. He wasn't, 
Irene hoped, being too bored. He seemed as he 
always did, a bit aloof, a little amused, and 
somewhat weary. And as usual he was hovering before the book-shelves. But he was not, 
she noticed, looking at the book he had taken 
down. Instead, his dull amber eyes were held 
by something across the room. They were a 
little scornful. Well, Hugh had never cared for 
Clare Kendry. For a minute Irene hesitated, 
then turned her head, though she knew what it 
was that held Hugh's gaze. Clare, who had 
suddenly clouded all her days. Brian, the 
father of Ted and Junior. 

Clare's ivory face was what It always 
was, beautiful and caressing. Or maybe today a 
little masked. Unrevealing. Unaltered and undisturbed by any emotion within or without. 
Brian's seemed to Irene to be pitiably bare. Or 
was it too as it always was? That half-effaced 
seeking look, did he always have that? Queer, 
 that now she didn't know, couldn't recall. Then 
she saw him smile, and the smile made his face 
all eager and shining. Impelled by some inner 
urge of loyalty to herself, she glanced away. 
But only for a moment. And when she turned 
towards them again, she thought that the look 
on his face was the most melancholy and yet 
the most scoffing that she had ever seen upon it. 

In the next quarter of an hour she promised herself to Bianca Wentworth in Sixtysecond Street, Jane Tenant at Seventh Avenue 
and a Hundred and Fiftieth Street, and the 
Dashields in Brooklyn for dinner all on the 
same evening and at almost the same hour. 

Oh well, what did it matter? She had 
no thoughts at all now, and all she felt was a 
great fatigue. Before her tired eyes Clare 
Kendry was talking to Dave Freeland. Scraps 
of their conversation, in Clare's husky voice, 
floated over to her: ". . . always admired you 
... so much about you long ago . . . everybody says so ... no one but you. . . ." And 
more of the same. The man hung rapt on her 
words, though he was the husband of Felise 
 Freeland, and the author of novels that revealed a man of perception and a devastating 
irony. And he fell for such pish-posh ! And all 
because Clare had a trick of sliding down ivory 
lids over astonishing black eyes and then lifting them suddenly and turning on a caressing 
smile. Men like Dave Freeland fell for it. And 
Brian. 

Her mental and physical languor receded. Brian. What did it mean? How would it 
affect her and the boys? The boys! She had a 
surge of relief. It ebbed, vanished. A feeling of 
absolute unimportance followed. Actually, she 
didn't count. She was, to him, only the mother 
of his sons. That was all. Alone she was nothing. Worse. An obstacle. 

Rage boiled up in her. 

There was a slight crash. On the floor 
at her feet lay the shattered cup. Dark stains 
dotted the bright rug. Spread. The chatter 
stopped. Went on. Before her, Zulena gathered 
up the white fragments. 

As from a distance Hugh Wentworth's 
dipt voice came to her,  though he was, she 
 w^s aware, somehow miraculously at her side. 
"Sorry," he apologized. "Must have pushed 
you. Clumsy of me. Don't tell me it's priceless 
and irreplaceable." 

It hurt. Dear God! How the thing 
hurt! But she couldn't think of that now. Not 
with Hugh sitting there mumbling apologies 
and lies. The significance of his words, the 
power of his discernment, stirred in her a sense 
of caution. Her pride revolted. Damn Hugh! 
Something would have to be done about him. 
Now. She couldn't, it seemed, help his knowing. It was too late for that. But she could and 
would keep him from knowing that she knew. 
She could, she would bear it. She'd have to. 
There were the boys. Her whole body went 
taut. In that second she saw that she could bear 
anything, but only if no one knew that she had 
anything to bear. It hurt. It frightened her, but 
she could bear it. 

She turned to Hugh. Shook her head. 
Raised innocent dark eyes to his concerned pale 
ones. "Oh, no," she protested, "you didn't push 
 me. Cross your heart, hope to die, and I'll tell 
you how it happened." 

''Done!" 

"Did you notice that cup? Well, you're 
lucky. It was the ugliest thing that your ancestors, the charming Confederates ever owned. 
I've forgotten how many thousands of years 
ago It was that Brian's great-great-grand-uncle 
owned it. But It has, or had, a good old hoary 
history. It was brought North by way of the 
subway. Oh, all right ! Be English if you want 
to and call It the underground. What I'm coming to is the fact that I've never figured out a 
way of getting rid of It until about five minutes 
ago. I had an inspiration. I had only to break 
it, and I was rid of it for ever. So simple ! And 
I'd never thought of it before." 

Hugh nodded and his frosty smile 
spread over his features. Had she convinced 
him? 

"Still," she went on with a little laugh 
that didn't, she was sure, sound the least bit 
forced, ''I'm perfectly willing for you to take 
 the blame and admit that you pushed me at the 
wrong moment. What are friends for, if not to 
help bear our sins? Brian will certainly be told 
that it was your fault. 

"More tea, Clare? ... I haven't had 
a minute with you. . . . Yes, it is a nice party. 
. . . You'll stay to dinner, I hope. . . . Oh, 
too bad! . . . I'll be alone with the boys. . . . 
They'll be sorry. Brian's got a medical meeting, 
or something. . . . Nice frock you're wearing. 
. . . Thanks. . . . Well, good-bye; see you 
soon, I hope." 

The clock chimed. One. Two, Three. 
Four. Five. Six. Was It, could it be, only a little 
over an hour since she had come down to tea? 
One little hour. 

"Must you go? . . . Good-bye. . . . 
Thank you so much. ... So nice to see 
you. . . . Yes, Wednesday. . . . My love to 
Madge. . . . Sorry, but Fm filled up for 
Tuesday. . . . Oh, really? . . . Yes. . . . 
Good-bye.  . . . Good-bye. . . ." 

It hurt. It hurt like hell. But It didn't 
 matter, If no one knew. If everything could go 
on as before. If the boys were safe. 

It did hurt. 

But it didn't matter. 
