# Two

[Scan](https://archive.org/details/passing00lars/page/2/mode/2up?view=theater) | [LibriVox](https://www.archive.org/download/passing_etk_librivox/passing_10_larsen.mp3)

But it did matter. It mattered more than 
anything had ever mattered before. 

What bitterness ! That the one fear, the 
one uncertainty, that she had felt, Brian's ache 
to go somewhere else, should have dwindled to 
a childish triviality ! And with It the quality of 
the courage and resolution with which she had 
met It. From the visions and dangers which she 
now perceived she shrank away. For them she 
had no remedy or courage. Desperately she 
tried to shut out the knowledge from which 
had risen this turmoil, which she had no power 
to moderate or still, within her. And half succeeded. 

For, she reasoned, what was there, 
what had there been, to show that she was even 
half correct In her tormenting notion? Nothing. 
She had seen nothing, heard nothing. She had 
no facts or proofs. She was only making herself 
unutterably wretched by an unfounded suspl cion. It had been a case of looking for trouble 
and finding it in good measure. Merely that. 

With this self-assurance that she had no 
real knowledge, she redoubled her efforts to 
drive out of her mind the distressing thought of 
faiths broken and trusts betrayed which every 
mental vision of Clare, of Brian, brought with 
them. She could not, she would not, go again 
through the tearing agony that lay just behind 
her. 

She must, she told herself, be fair. In 
all their married life she had had no slightest 
cause to suspect her husband of any Infidelity, 
of any serious flirtation even. If — and she 
doubted it — he had had his hours of outside 
erratic conduct, they were unknown to her. 
Why begin now to assume them? And on nothing more concrete than an idea that had leapt 
into her mind because he had told her that he 
had invited a friend, a friend of hers, to a party 
in his own house. And at a time when she had 
been, it was likely, more asleep than awake. 
How could she without anything done or said, 
or left undone or unsaid, so easily believe him 
 guilty? How be so ready to renounce all confidence in the worth of their life together? 

And if, perchance, there were some 
small something — well, what could it mean? 
Nothing. There were the boys. There was John 
Bellew. The thought of these three gave her 
some slight relief. But she did not look the future in the face. She wanted to feel nothing, to 
think nothing; simply to believe that it was all 
silly invention on her part. Yet she could not. 
Not quite. 

Christmas, with its unreality, Its hectic 
rush. Its false gaiety, came and went. Irene was 
thankful for the confused unrest of the season. 
Its Irksomeness, Its crowds, Its Inane and Insincere repetitions of genialities, pushed between 
her and the contemplation of her growing unhapplness. 

She was thankful, too, for the continued 
absence of Clare, who, John Bellew having returned from a long stay in Canada, had withdrawn to that other life of hers, remote and Inaccessible.  But  beating  against  the  walled 
 prison of Irene's thoughts was the shunned 
fancy that, though absent, Clare Kendry was 
still present, that she was close. 

Brian, too, had withdrawn. The house 
contained his outward self and his belongings. 
He came and went with his usual noiseless irregularity. He sat across from her at table. 
He slept in his room next to hers at night. But 
he was remote and inaccessible. No use pretending that he was happy, that things were 
the same as they had always been. He wasn't 
and they weren't. However, she assured herself, it needn't necessarily be because of anything that involved Clare. It was, it must be, 
another manifestation of the old longing. 

But she did wish it were spring, March, 
so that Clare would be sailing, out of her life 
and Brian's. Though she had come almost to 
believe that there was nothing but generous 
friendship between those two, she was very 
tired of Clare Kendry. She wanted to be free 
of her, and of her furtive comings and goings. 
If something would only happen, something 
that would make John  Bellew decide on an 
 earlier departure, or that would remove Clare. 
Anything. She didn't care what. Not even if it 
were that Clare's Margery were ill, or dying. 
Not even if Bellew should discover— 

She drew a quick, sharp breath. And for 
a long time sat staring down at the hands in 
her lap. Strange, she had not before realized 
how easily she could put Clare out of her life ! 
She had only to tell John Bellew that his wife 
— No. Not that! But if he should somehow 
learn of these Harlem visits — Why should she 
hesitate? Why spare Clare? 

But she shrank away from the idea of 
telling that man, Clare Kendry's white husband, 
anything that would lead him to suspect that 
his wife was a Negro. Nor could she write it, 
or telephone it, or tell it to someone else who 
would tell him. 

She was caught between two allegiances, 
different, yet the same. Herself. Her race. 
Race ! The thing that bound and suffocated her. 
Whatever steps she took, or if she took none 
at all, something would be crushed. A person 
or the race. Clare, herself, or the race. Or, it 
 might be, all three. Nothing, she Imagined, was 
ever more completely sardonic. 

Sitting alone In the quiet living-room In 
the pleasant fire-light, Irene Redfield wished, 
for the first time In her life, that she had not 
been born a Negro. For the first time she suffered and rebelled because she was unable to 
disregard the burden of race. It was, she cried 
silently, enough to suffer as a woman, an individual, on one's own account, without having 
to suffer for the race as well. It was a brutality, 
and undeserved. Surely, no other people so 
cursed as Ham's dark children. 

Nevertheless, her weakness, her shrinking, her own inability to compass the thing, did 
not prevent her from wishing fervently that. In 
some way with which she had no concern, John 
Bellew would discover, not that his wife had a 
touch of the tar-brush — Irene didn't want that 
— ^but that she was spending all the time that 
he was out of the city In black Harlem. Only 
that. It would be enough to rid her forever of 
Clare Kendry. 