# One

[Scan](https://archive.org/details/passing00lars/page/86/mode/2up?view=theater) | [LibriVox](https://www.archive.org/download/passing_etk_librivox/passing_05_larsen.mp3)

StJCH WERE Irene Redfield's memories as she 
sat there in her room, a flood of October sunlight streaming in upon her, holding that second letter of Clare Kendry's. 

Laying it aside, she regarded with an astonishment that had in it a mild degree of 
amusement the violence of the feelings which it 
stirred in her. 

It wasn't the great measure of anger 
that surprised and slightly amused her. That, 
she was certain, was justified and reasonable, 
as was the fact that it could hold, still strong 
and unabated, across the stretch of two years' 
time entirely removed from any sight or sound 
of John Bellew, or of Clare. That even at this 
remote date the memory of the man's words 
and manner had power to set her hands to 
trembling and to send the blood pounding 
against her temples did not seem to her extraordinary. But that she should retain that dim 
 sense   of   fear,   of  panic,   was   surprising, 
silly. 

That Clare should have written, should, 
even all things considered, have expressed a 
desire to see her again, did not so much amaze 
her. To count as nothing the annoyances, the 
bitterness, or the suffering of others, that was 
Clare. 

Well — Irene's shoulders went up — one 
thing was sure : that she needn't, and didn't 
intend to, lay herself open to any repetition of 
a humiliation as galling and outrageous as that 
which, for Clare Kendry's sake, she had borne 
"that time in Chicago." Once was enough. 

If, at the time of choosing, Clare hadn't 
precisely reckoned the cost, she had, nevertheless, no right to expect others to help make 
up the reckoning. The trouble with Clare was, 
not only that she wanted to have her cake and 
eat it too, but that she wanted to nibble at the 
cakes of other folk as well. 

Irene Redfield found it hard to sympathize with this new tenderness, this avowed 
yearning of Clare's for "my own people." 
 The letter which she just put out of her 
hand was, to her taste, a bit too lavish in its 
wordiness, a shade too unreserved in the manner of its expression. It roused again that old 
suspicion that Clare was acting, not consciously, 
perhaps — that is, not too consciously — but, 
none the less, acting. Nor was Irene inclined 
to excuse what she termed Clare's downright 
selfishness. 

And mingled with her disbelief and resentment was another feeling, a question. Why 
hadn't she spoken that day? Why, in the face 
of Bellew's ignorant hate and aversion, had 
she concealed her own origin? Why had she 
allowed him to make his assertions and express 
his misconceptions undisputed? Why, simply 
because of Clare Kendry, who had exposed her 
to such torment, had she failed to take up the 
defence of the race to which she belonged? 

Irene asked these questions, felt them. 
They were, however, merely rhetorical, as she 
herself was well aware. She knew their answers, every one, and it was the same for them 
all.  The sardony of it!  She couldn't betray 
 Clare, couldn't even run the risk of appearing 
to defend a people that were being maligned, 
for fear that that defence might in some infinitesimal degree lead the way to final discovery of 
her secret. She had to Clare Kendry a duty. She 
was bound to her by those very ties of race, 
which, for all her repudiation of them, Clare 
had been unable to completely sever. 

And it wasn't, as Irene knew, that Clare 
cared at all about the race or what was to become of it. She didn't. Or that she had for any 
of its members great, or even real, affection, 
though she professed undying gratitude for the 
small kindnesses which the Westover family 
had shown her when she was a child. Irene 
doubted the genuineness of it, seeing herself 
only as a means to an end where Clare was 
concerned. Nor could it be said that she had 
even the slight artistic or sociological interest 
In the race that some members of other races 
displayed. She hadn't. No, Clare Kendry cared 
nothing for the race. She only belonged to It. 

"Not another damned thing!" Irene de-  clared aloud as she drew a fragile stocking 
over a pale beige-coloured foot. 

"Aha ! Swearing again, are you, madam ? 
Caught you in the act that time." 

Brian Redfield had come into the room 
in that noiseless way which, in spite, of the 
years of their life together, still had the power 
to disconcert her. He stood looking down on 
her with that amused smile of his, which was 
just the faintest bit supercilious and yet was 
somehow very becoming to him. 

Hastily Irene pulled on the other stocking and slipped her feet into the slippers beside 
her chair. 

"And what brought on this particular 
outburst of profanity? That is, if an indulgent 
but perturbed husband may inquire. The mother 
of sons too ! The times, alas, the times!" 

"I've had this letter," Irene told him. 
"And I'm sure that anybody'll admit it's enough 
to make a saint swear. The nerve of her!" 

She passed the letter to him, and in 
the act made a little mental frown. For, with 
 a nicety of perception, she saw that she was 
doing it Instead of answering his question with 
words, so that he might be occupied while she 
hurried through her dressing. For she was late 
again, and Brian, she well knew, detested that. 
Why, oh why, couldn't she ever manage to be 
on time? Brian had been up for ages, had made 
some calls for all she knew, besides having 
taken the boys downtown to school. And she 
wasn't dressed yet; had only begun. Damn 
Clare ! This morning it was her fault. 

Brian sat down and bent his head over 
the letter, puckering his brows slightly in his 
effort to make out Clare's scrawl. 

Irene, who had risen and was standing 
before the mirror, ran a comb through her 
black hair, then tossed her head with a light 
characteristic gesture. In order to disarrange a 
little the set locks. She touched a powder-puff 
to her warm olive skin, and then put on her 
frock with a motion so hasty that It was with 
some difficulty properly adjusted. At last she 
was ready, though she didn't Immediately say 
so, but stood, Instead, looking with a sort of 
 curious detachment at her husband across the 
room. 

Brian, she was thinking, was extremely 
good-looking. Not, of course, pretty or effeminate; the slight irregularity of his nose saved 
him from the prettiness, and the rather marked 
heaviness of his chin saved him from the effeminacy. But he was, in a pleasant masculine 
way, rather handsome. And yet, wouldn't he, 
perhaps, have been merely ordinarily goodlooking but for the richness, the beauty of his 
skin, which was of an exquisitely fine texture 
and deep copper colour. 

He looked up and said: "Clare? That 
must be the girl you told me about meeting the 
last time you were out home. The one you 
went to tea with?" 

Irene's answer to that was an inclination of the head. 

"I'm ready," she said. 

They were going downstairs, Brian 
deftly, unnecessarily, piloting her round the 
two short curved steps, just before the centre 
landing. 
 "You're not," he asked, "going to see 
her?" 

His words, however, were In reality not 
a question, but, as Irene was aware, an admonition. 

Her front teeth just touched. She spoke 
through them, and her tones held a thin sarcasm. "Brian, darling, I'm really not such an, 
idiot that I don't realize that if a man calls me 
a nigger, it's his fault the first time, but mine 
if he has the opportunity to do It again." 

They went Into the dining-room. He 
drew back her chair and she sat down behind 
the fat-bellied German coffee-pot, which sent 
out Its morning fragrance, mingled with the 
smell of crisp toast and savoury bacon, In the 
distance. With his long, nervous fingers he 
picked up the morning paper from his own 
chair and sat down. 

Zulena, a small mahogany-coloured 
creature, brought In the grapefruit. 

They took up their spoons. 

Out of the silence Brian spoke. Blandly.  ''My dear, you misunderstand me entirely. I 
simply meant that I hope you're not going to 
let her pester you. She will, you know, if you 
give her half a chance and she's anything at all 
like your description of her. Anyway, they always do. Besides," he corrected, "the man, her 
husband, didn't call you a nigger. There's a 
difference, you know." 

"No, certainly he didn't. Not actually. 
He couldn't, not very well, since he didn't 
know. But he would have. It amounts to the 
same thing. And I'm sure it was just as unpleasant." 

"U-mm, I don't know. But it seems to 
me," he pointed out, "that you, my dear, had 
all the advantage. You knew what his opinion 
of you was, while he — Well, 'twas ever thus. 
We know, always have. They don't. Not quite. 
It has, you will admit, it's humorous side, and, 
sometimes, its conveniences." 

She poured the coffee. 

"I can't see It. I'm going to write Clare. 
Today, If I can find a minute. It's a thing we 
 might as well settle definitely, and immediately. 
Curious, isn't it, that knowing, as she does, his 
unqualified attitude, she still — " 

Brian interrupted: "It's always that 
way. Never known it to fail. Remember Albert Hammond, how he used to be for ever 
haunting Seventh Avenue, and Lenox Avenue, 
and the dancing-places, until some 'shine' took 
a shot at him for casting an eye towards his 
'sheba?' They always come back. I've seen it 
happen time and time again." 

''But why?" Irene wanted to know. 
"Why?" 

"If I knew that, I'd know w^hat race is." 

"But wouldn't you think that having 
got the thing, or things, they were after, and at 
such risk, they'd be satisfied? Or afraid?" 

"Yes," Brian agreed, "you certainly 
would think so. But, the fact remains, they 
aren't. Not satisfied, I mean. I think they're 
scared enough most of the time, when they give 
way to the urge and slip back. Not scared 
enough to stop them, though. Why, the good 
God only knows." 
 Irene leaned forward, speaking, she 
was aware, with a vehemence absolutely unnecessary, but which she could not control. 

"Well, Clare can just count me out. 
I've no intention of being the link between her 
and her poorer darker brethren. After that 
scene in Chicago too! To calmly expect me — " 
She stopped short, suddenly too wrathful for 
words. 

"Quite right. The only sensible thing to 
do. Let her miss you. It's an unhealthy business, the whole affair. Always is." 

Irene nodded. "More coffee," she offered. 

"Thanks, no." He took up his paper 
again, spreading it open with a little rattling 
noise. 

Zulena came In bringing more toast. 
Brian took a slice and bit into it with that audible crunching sound that Irene disliked so intensely, and turned back to his paper. 

She said: "It's funny about ^passing.' 
We disapprove of it and at the same time condone It. It excites our contempt and yet we 
 rather admire It. We shy away from it with 
an odd kind of revulsion, but we protect it." 

"Instinct of the race to survive and expand." 

"Rot ! Everything can't be explained by 
some general biological phrase." 

"Absolutely everything can. Look at 
the so-called whites, who've left bastards all 
over the known earth. Same thing in them. Instinct of the race to survive and expand." 

With that Irene didn't at all agree, but 
many arguments in the past had taught her the 
futility of attempting to combat Brian on 
ground where he was more nearly at home than 
she. Ignoring his unqualified assertion, she slid 
away from the subject entirely. 

"I wonder," she asked, "if you'll have 
time to run me down to the printing-office. It's 
on a Hundred and Sixteenth Street. I've got to 
see about some handbills and some more tickets for the dance." 

"Yes, of course. How's it going? Everything all set?" 

"Ye-es. I guess so. The boxes are all 
 sold and nearly all the first batch of tickets. 
And we expect to take in almost as much again 
at the door. Then, there's all that cake to sell. 
It's a terrible lot of work, though." 

"I'll bet it is. Uplifting the brother's 
no easy job. I'm as busy as a cat with fleas, myself." And over his face there came a shadow. 
"Lord! how I hate sick people, and their stupid, 
meddling families, and smelly, dirty rooms, and 
climbing filthy steps In dark hallways." 

"Surely," Irene began, fighting back the 
fear and irritation that she felt, "surely — " 

Her husband silenced her, saying 
sharply: "Let's not talk about it, please." And 
immediately, in his usual, slightly mocking tone 
he asked: "Are you ready to go now? I haven't 
a great deal of time to wait." 

He got up. She followed him out Into 
the hall without replying. He picked up his soft 
brown hat from the small table and stood a 
moment whirling it round on his long teacoloured fingers. 

Irene, watching him, was thinking: "It 
Isn't fair, It isn't fair." After all these years to 
 Still blame her like this. Hadn't his success 
proved that she'd been right in insisting that he 
stick to his profession right there in New York? 
Couldn't he see, even now, that it had been 
best? Not for her, oh no, not for her — she had 
never really considered herself — but for him 
and the boys. Was she never to be free of it, 
that fear which crouched, always, deep down 
within her, stealing away the sense of security, 
the feeling of permanence, from the life which 
she had so admirably arranged for them all, 
and desired so ardently to have remain as it 
was? That strange, and to her fantastic, notion 
of Brian's of going off to Brazil, which, though 
unmentioned, yet lived within him; how it 
frightened her, and — yes, angered her I 

"Well?" he asked lightly. 

"I'll just get my things. One minute," 
she promised and turned upstairs. 

Her voice had been even and her step 
was firm, but in her there was no slackening of 
the agitation, of the alarms, which Brian's expression of discontent had raised. He had never 
spoken of his desire since that long-ago time of 
 Storm and strain, of hateful and nearly disastrous quarrelling, when she had so firmly opposed him, so sensibly pointed out its utter 
impossibility and its probable consequences to 
her and the boys, and had even hinted at a dissolution of their marriage in the event of his 
persistence in his idea. No, there had been, in 
all the years that they had lived together since 
then, no other talk of It, no more than there 
had been any other quarrelling or any other 
threats. But because, so she insisted, the bond 
of flesh and spirit between them was so strong, 
she knew, had always known, that his dissatisfaction had continued, as had his dislike and 
disgust for his profession and his country. 

A feeling of uneasiness stole upon her 
at the inconceivable suspicion that she might 
have been wrong in her estimate of her husband's character. But she squirmed away from 
it. Impossible ! She couldn't have been wrong. 
Everything proved that she had been right. 
More than right, if such a thing could be. And 
all, she assured herself, because she understood 
him so well, because she had, actually, a special 
 talent for understanding him. It was, as she 
saw it, the one thing that had been the basis of 
the success which she had made of a marriage 
that had threatened to fail. She knew him as 
well as he knew himself, or better. 

Then why worry? The thing, this discontent which had exploded into words, would 
surely die, flicker out, at last. True, she had in 
the past often been tempted to believe that it 
had died, only to become conscious, in some 
instinctive, subtle way, that she had been merely 
deceiving herself for a while and that it still 
lived. But it would die. Of that she was certain. 
She had only to direct and guide her man, to 
keep him going in the right direction. 

She put on her coat and adjusted her 
hat. 

Yes, it would die, as long ago she had 
made up her mind that it should. But in the 
meantime, while it was still living and still had 
the power to flare up and alarm her, it would 
have to be banked, smothered, and something 
offered in Its stead. She would have to make 
some plan, some decision, at once. She frowned, 
 for it annoyed her intensely. For, though temporary, it would be important and perhaps disturbing. Irene didn't like changes, particularly 
changes that affected the smooth routine of her 
household. Well, it couldn't be helped. Something would have to be done. And immediately. 

She took up her purse and drawing on 
her gloves, ran down the steps and out through 
the door which Brian held open for her and 
stepped into the waiting car. 

"You know," she said, settling herself 
into the seat beside him, "I'm awfuly glad to 
get this minute alone with you. It does seem 
that we're always so busy — I do hate that — 
but what can we do? I've had something on my 
mind for ever so long, something that needs 
talking over and really serious consideration." 

The car's engine rumbled as it moved 
out from the kerb and into the scant traffic of 
the street under Brian's expert guidance. 

She studied his profile. 

They turned into Seventh Avenue. Then 
he said: "Well, let's have it. No time like the 
present for the settling of weighty matters." 
 "It's about Junior. I wonder if he isn't 
going too fast in school? We do forget that 
he's not eleven yet. Surely it can't be good for 
him to — well, if he is, I mean. Going too fast, 
you know. Of course, you know more about 
these things than I do. You're better able to 
judge. That is, if you've noticed or thought 
about it at all." 

"I do wish, Irene, you wouldn't be for 
ever fretting about those kids. They're all 
right. Perfectly all right. Good, strong, healthy 
boys, especially Junior. Most especially 
Junior." 

"We-11, I s'pose you're right. You're 
expected to know about things like that, and 
I'm sure you wouldn't make a mistake about 
your own boy." (Now, why had she said that?) 
''But that isn't all. I'm terribly afraid he's 
picked up some queer ideas about things — some 
things — from the older boys, you know." 

Her manner was consciously light. Apparently she was intent of the maze of traffic, 
but she was still watching Brian's face closely. 
On it was a peculiar expression. Was it, could 
 It possibly be, a mixture of scorn and distaste? 

''Queer Ideas?" he repeated. "D'you 
mean Ideas about sex, Irene?" 

"Ye-es. Not quite nice ones. Dreadful 
jokes, and things like that." 

"Oh, I see," he threw at her. For a 
while there was silence between them. After a 
moment he demanded bluntly: "Well, what of 
it? If sex isn't a joke, what Is It? And what Is 
a joke?" 

"As you please, Brian. He's your son, 
you know." Her voice was clear, level, disapproving. 

"Exactly! And you're trying to make a 
molly-coddle out of him. Well, just let me tell 
you, I won't have it. And you needn't think 
I'm going to let you change him to some nice 
kindergarten kind of a school because he's getting a little necessary education. I won't! He'll 
stay right where he is. The sooner and the more 
he learns about sex, the better for him. And 
most certainly if he learns that it's a grand 
joke, the greatest in the world. It'll keep him 
from lots of disappointments later on." 
 Irene didn't answer. 

They reached the printing-shop. She got 
out, emphatically slamming the car's door behind her. There was a piercing agony of misery 
In her heart. She hadn't Intended to behave 
like this, but her extreme resentment at his attitude, the sense of having been wilfully misunderstood and reproved, drove her to fury. 

Inside the shop, she stilled the trembling 
of her lips and drove back her rising anger. 
Her business transacted, she came back to the 
car In a chastened mood. But against the armour of Brian's stubborn silence she heard herself saying In a calm, metallic voice: "I don't 
believe I'll go back just now. I've remembered 
that I've got to do something about getting 
something decent to wear. I haven't a rag that's 
fit to be seen. I'll take the bus downtown." 

Brian merely doffed his hat In that maddening polite way which so successfully curbed 
and yet revealed his temper. 

''Good-bye," she said bitlngly. "Thanks 
for the lift," and turned towards the avenue. 

What, she wondered contritely, was she 
to do next? She was vexed with herself for 
having chosen, as it had turned out, so clumsy 
an opening for what she had intended to suggest: some European school for Junior next 
year, and Brian to take him over. If she had 
been able to present her plan, and he had accepted it, as she was sure that he would have 
done, with other more favourable opening 
methods, he would have had that to look forward to as a break in the easy monotony that 
seemed, for some reason she was wholly unable to grasp, so hateful to him. 

She was even more vexed at her own 
explosion of anger. What could have got into 
her to give way to it in such a moment? 

Gradually her mood passed. She drew 
back from the failure her first attempt at substitution, not so much discouraged as disappointed and ashamed. It might be, she reflected, 
that, in addition to her ill-timed loss of temper, 
she had been too hasty in her eagerness to distract him, had rushed too closely on the heels 
of his outburst, and had thus aroused his suspicions and his obstinacy. She had but to wait. 
 Another more appropriate time would come, 
tomorrow, next week, next month. It wasn't 
now, as It had been once, that she was afraid 
that he would throw everything aside and rush 
off to that remote place of his heart's desire. 
He wouldn't, she knew. He was fond of her, 
loved her, in his slightly undemonstrative way. 

And there were the boys. 

It was only that she wanted him to be 
happy, resenting, however, his inability to be 
so with things as they were, and never acknowledging that though she did want him to be 
happy. It was only In her own way and by some 
plan of hers for him that she truly desired him 
to be so. Nor did she admit that all other plans, 
all other ways, she regarded as menaces, more 
or less Indirect, to that security of place and 
substance which she Insisted upon for her sons 
and in a lesser degree for herself. 
