# Four

But undistinctive as the dance had seemed, 
it was, nevertheless, Important. For It marked 
the beginning of a new factor In Irene Redfield's 
life, something that left its trace on all 
the future years of her existence. It was the 
beginning of a new friendship with Clare Kendry. 

She came to them frequently after that. 
Always with a touching gladness that welled 
up and overflowed on all the Redfield household. Yet Irene could never be sure whether 
her comings were a joy or a vexation. 

Certainly she was no trouble. She had 
not to be entertained, or even noticed — if anyone could ever avoid noticing Clare. If Irene 
happened to be out or occupied, Clare could 
very happily amuse herself with Ted and 
Junior, who had conceived for her an admiration that verged on adoration, especially Ted. 
Or, lacking the boys, she would descend to the 
kitchen and, with — to Irene — an exasperating 
 childlike lack of perception, spend her visit in 
talk and merriment with Zulena and Sadie. 

Irene, while secretly resenting these 
visits to the playroom and kitchen, for some obscure reason which she shied away from putting 
into words, never requested that Clare make an 
end of them, or hinted that she wouldn't have 
spoiled her own Margery so outrageously, nor 
been so friendly with white servants. 

Brian looked on these things with the 
same tolerant amusement that marked his entire 
attitude toward Clare. Never since his faintly 
derisive surprise at Irene's information that 
she was to go with them the night of the dance, 
had he shown any disapproval of Clare's presence. On the other hand, it couldn't be said 
that her presence seemed to please him. It 
didn't annoy or disturb him, so far as Irene 
could judge. That was all. 

Didn't he, she once asked him, think 
Clare was extraordinarily beautiful? 

"No," he had answered. "That is, not 
particularly." 

"Brian, you're fooling!" 
 "No, honestly. Maybe Fm fussy. I 
s'pose she'd be an unusually good-looking white 
woman. I like my ladies darker. Beside an Anumber-one sheba, she simply hasn't got 'em." 

Clare went, sometimes with Irene and 
Brian, to parties and dances, and on a few 
occasions when Irene hadn't been able or inclined to go out, she had gone alone with Brian 
to some bridge party or benefit dance. 

Once in a while she came formally to 
dine with them. She wasn't, however, in spite 
of her poise and air of worldliness, the ideal 
dinner-party guest. Beyond the aesthetic pleasure one got from watching her, she contributed 
little, sitting for the most part silent, an odd 
dreaming look in her hypnotic eyes. Though she 
could for some purpose of her own — the desire 
to be included in some party being made up to 
go cabareting, or an invitation to a dance or a 
tea — talk fluently and entertainingly. 

She was generally liked. She was so 
friendly and responsive, and so ready to press 
the sweet food of flattery on all. Nor did she 
object to appearing a bit pathetic and ill-used, 
 SO that people could feel sorry for her. And, no 
matter how often she came among them, she 
still remained someone apart, a little mysterious and strange, someone to wonder about and 
to admire and to pity. 

Her visits were undecided and uncertain, being, as they were, dependent on the 
presence or absence of John Bellew in the city. 
But she did, once in a while, manage to steal 
uptown for an afternoon even when he was not 
away. As time went on without any apparent 
danger of discovery, even Irene ceased to be 
perturbed about the possibiHty of Clare's husband's stumbling on her racial identity. 

The daughter, Margery, had been left 
in Switzerland in school, for Clare and Bellew 
would be going back in the early spring. In 
March, Clare thought. "And how I do hate to 
think of it!" she would say, always with a suggestion of leashed rebellion; "but I can't see 
how I'm going to get out of it. Jack won't 
hear of my staying behind. If I could have just 
a couple of months more in New York, alone I 
mean, I'd be the happiest thing in the world." 
 "I Imagine you'll be happy enough, once 
you get away," Irene told her one day when 
she was bewailing her approaching departure. 
"Remember, there's Margery. Think how 
glad you'll be to see her after all this time." 

"Children aren't everything," was Clare 
Kendry's answer to that. "There are other 
things in the world, though I admit some people don't seem to suspect It." And she laughed, 
more. It seemed, at some secret joke of her own 
than at her words. 

Irene replied: "You know you don't 
mean that, Clare. You're only trying to tease 
me. I know very well that I take being a mother 
rather seriously, I am wrapped up in my boys 
and the running of my house. I can't help It. 
And, really, I don't think it's anything to laugh 
at." And though she was aware of the slight 
primness in her words and attitude, she had 
neither power nor wish to efface it. 

Clare, suddenly very sober and sweet, 
said: "You're right. It's no laughing matter. 
It's shameful of me to tease you, 'Rene. You are 
so good." And she reached out and gave Irene's 
 hand an affectionate little squeeze. "Don't 
think," she added, ^Vhatever happens, that 
I'll ever forget how good you've been to me." 

"Nonsense!" 

"Oh, but you have, you have. It's just 
that I haven't any proper morals or sense of 
duty, as you have, that makes me act as I do." 

"Now you are talking nonsense." 

"But it's true, 'Rene. Can't you realize 
that I'm not like you a bit? Why, to get the 
things I want badly enough, I'd do anything, 
hurt anybody, throw anything away. Really, 
'Rene, I'm not safe." Her voice as well as the 
look on her face had a beseeching earnestness 
that made Irene vaguely uncomfortable. 

She said: "I don't believe it. In the first 
place what you're saying is so utterly, so 
wickedly wrong. And as for your giving up 
things — " She stopped, at a loss for an acceptable term to express her opinion of Clare's 
"having" nature. 

But Clare Kendry had begun to cry, 
audibly, with no effort at restraint, and for no 
reason that Irene could discover. 
